# Dataset generator for wireless mobile networks


## Using OSM Web Wizard

Usage of the OSM Web Wizard can be looked up in the [SUMO website](https://sumo.dlr.de/docs/Tutorials/OSMWebWizard.html). Summing up, inside the SUMO directory there is a folder `tools`, which contains a file named `osmWebWizard.py`. By running it using Pyhton, a web interface pops up with the OSM Web Wizard. From it, a SUMO scenario can be downloaded. For the scope of this work, it is important to export building information as well with the tick in `Add polygons`. The file `osm.sumocfg` will be the input to the SUMO simulator. The file `osm.poly` will be the input to the "Map processing" (`Medium.py`).

## Using SUMO

For using sumo, the following comand should be used inside the folder exported by the OSM Web Wizard, where `<granularity>` is the granularity of the output. We used `0.1`. A file named `fcd.xml` will be used as the input to the "Node processing" (`PowerTracker.py`).

```
sumo -c osm.sumocfg --fcd-output fcd.xml --device.fcd.period <granularity> --step-length <granularity>
```

## Map processing (`Medium.py`)

The usage for the Map processing module is as shown below. The `<polygon_file>` parameter is the path to the `osm.poly` within the scenario from OSM Web Wizard. `<center_x>` and `<center_y>` are the coordinates where the central base station will be generated. `<working_folder>` is where the final static maps (one global and one for each cell) will be placed. 

```
python Medium.py <polygon_file> <center_x> <center_y> <working_folder>
```

For the generated trace, the values of 1080.0, 892.0 were used for `<center_x>`, `<center_y>`.

## Node processing (`PowerTracker.py`)

The usage for the Node processing module is show below. `<fcd_file>` is the `fcd.xml` file generated by sumo. `<working_folder>` is the same as used by the Map processing to export the maps. `<t_start>` is the timestamp at which the node processing should start. `<t_stop>` is the timestamp at which the node processing should stop.

```
python PowerTracker.py <fcd_file> <working_folder> <t_start> <t_stop>
```

## Network traffic generation (`Generator.py`)

The input configurations for the traffic generator (including the node trace folder, i.e. the working direction, are inside `Configurations.py`.


## Generated datasets

Individual: [IEEE Dataport](https://dx.doi.org/10.21227/4zdn-qe46)

Aggregated: [Zenodo](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5513705)
